>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, Form Controls.
This is what we've been seeing in
the code and it's responsible for
tracking value, and validation.
You can also group
FormControls with FormGroup.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let me see,
I think I have this in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So using ngModelGroup,
you can actually bind these together or
actually group these together, but
let me just backup and
we'll talk about that in a moment.
So the idea is you have a FormControl, but
then you can group them
together in a FormGroup.
And just like we created
a local reference to ngModel,
we can reference the entire
FormGroup in the form using ngForm.
And so this is where it does get
a little weird on the naming convention
is when you wanna reference the top
level FormGroup, it's ngForm,
but then you can then create a FormGroup
manually using ngModelGroup.
And so,
let's see what this actually looks like in
the code.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
we have a single output.
In order for this to work,
we do need to go form no action.
Let's do novalidate and.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll go myForm.
Now instead of ngModel,
we're going to reference
ngForm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Rather myForm,
here we go.
So this is ngForm and
then we can now see this,
but there's gonna be one caveat here and
we've thrown an error.
The reason being is and
actually I'm pretty happy about this,
because this actually did
not used to be like this.
So if you're using ngModel
within a form tag,
either the name attribute must be set or
the form control must be
defined in ngModelOptions.
So what this means is wow.
Actually, I didn't even notice this.
I just saw what I need and I moved on.
They actually give you some examples here.
So, thank you, Angular Core team.
This is helpful for
the the first time ever.
Let's see here.
Let's just close this and back to here.
So, what we need to do here is
we just need to give it a name.
And so,
what this does is Angular uses the name
property to wire it in to the form group.
So if we go back here,
now we put name on it
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We now have an object
that represents our entire form?
Well, that's not so impressive.
We only have a single element.
Let's spice things up a bit,
because yellow.
If I can't have a drone
deliver my cookies,
then the next best thing is creating
complex forms with more than one input.
Imagine that.
So, we'll go description.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now,
we can see here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
not only are we keeping track of all the
values in our form, but also the validity.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's do one more,
just because I really.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go div.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Wait for
it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on,
I forgot one thing.
Text, text, text, text, text.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
because I am using ngModel to bind
to a property that does not yet
exist on my component class,
you notice that when it initially loaded.
So, let's just refresh this.
It is not showing up in the FormGroup,
but you'll notice using ngModelGroup.
I believe is what I called it.
Yes, we are now essentially
grouping this form into
an object that you're allowed
to essentially nest these
properties into some object
that I think it's a little
bit more descriptive of
essentially your domain model.
So this is helpful when if you
actually wanted to submit,
you could just send the entire
basically form object bag and
pull it off.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
you'll notice that status is not
there until you fill it out.
The reason being is cuz I'm not
defining in my controller class.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: To the max.
Refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So then the minute I delete one of these,
it's saying, hey, the form is not here.
So Russ asks, can you show an example of
using more than one model and a form?
A nested form with associated models.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Unless I've
misunderstood the question,
this is I mean,
this is how you would nest it.
And in a sense, these title,
description and
status are kinda three
independent things b or models.
I mean, so what you could do
even is group these together to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's say, like.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget, description,
some description,
then you can come back here and
we can go some widget .title.
SomeWidget description.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So essentially,
we're just taking an object and
then we're binding the fields
to the properties on the object.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, Javier wants to
know how would you validate
a custom component?
I imagine the custom component would
have to admit whether it's valid or not.
Is there another cool way to do that?
Yes, there is another
cool way to do that and
it is tricky, essentially how do I.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's one particular
blog post that, here we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
I'm going to delegate this as homework.
So again, bringing up Pascal Precht and
his amazing contributions to the Angular
community is he talks about creating
custom form controls in Angular two.
And so, this is phenomenal and
you can actually have a custom thing.
And so generally, when we think of a form,
we think of like, inputs,
radio buttons, etc.
That you can create any element and
cause it to essentially
validate as if it were a form element,
a native form element.
And the way to do that, let me see
if I can get to the punch line here.
Wait for it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is using.
So one, this will hook, you use control.
Let me go backup to the top.
So, essentially using a custom
control value accessor.
So this is kind of a pretty
advanced topic in Angular two,
you can by implementing or
creating this custom value accessor
you can cause an element to
behave like an element on a form.
So let me go down here,
hold on real quick.
I don't wanna go too deep into this, but
this is how you do it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is you,
essentially create an input component
that implements the control
value accessor interface and then from
here, then it basically operates or
behaves like a form element, in so
much that you can get ngModel on it.
Actually, ngModel will work.
And then from here,
you can also do validation.
So that is really, the nutshell on that.
So you can do that, control value access.
Or if you just Google, how did I get
here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We've
got some form controls in Angular two.
But if I RAM and this does work,
because I actually did something like this
a couple of weeks ago using this blog post
as kind of the foundation.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now-
>> Speaker 2: Could you respond back again
to Russ?
He's looking for something a little
different than what you had initially
said.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So unfortunately,
I don't know if I understand the question.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
I'm not sure I do either,
but I'm trying to answer.
I don't know, let me give it a go and
then we'll see where it goes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Sure.
Because if we're talking about
Rails models and nesting those,
that's something that I'm unfamiliar with.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think we have one.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here formRef,
we're pointing it to ngForm, ngModel,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then here, we can essentially check the
value of the form as well as the validity.
We can group this together
using entry model group.
So, this is just a way to kind of
segment your data model in your
form.
>> Speaker 2: And
as we saw earlier, but
this is here in the slides,
essentially you now are able to
nest properties on the object.